Tonight marks the end of the most calamitous presidency of the 5th Republic
that destroyed virtually all the trust people had in it.
But once again, in spite of everything,
through abstention, blank and spoilt ballots,
as well as through the votes for Mr. Macron
our country massively rejected the far right
because it is unfamiliar to the Republican identity of France.
Mrs Le Pen came third of the second round
after Mr Macron, and after abstention, blank and spoilt ballots.
We have a new president.
Courtesy and the love for our democracy
commands that we accept it without any hesitation
and that we send him our best wishes.
May the sense of our homeland's destiny possess you Mr President.
May you be obsessed by the poor, those who have no rights, the homeless and the unemployed.
May France benefit from your victory, although we had better make sure it will by ourselves.
We know the program of the new presidential monarch.
It is war against the social achievements of the country and ecological irresponsibility.
It is not inevitable.
The general election must show that, after a vote of rejection and fear,
the time has come for a positive choice: the choice for "Our Common Future".
I call on the seven million people who voted for the project of which I was the candidate
to mobilize and remain united whether they voted for Mr Macron, or not.
I call on all those who are ready to break with the past to join La France Insoumise,
that became the new mass movement thanks to our efforts,
a movement that came in the lead in so many cities of our country.
Federate, people!
Don't scatter, because you saw that you were eliminated from the presidential runoff for a difference of 600k votes.
Federate, if you identify yourselves with ecological and social humanism,
which is necessary for our time and for which I try to be the spokesman.
Don't let go people, don't give up!
[Cut] This country and its inhabitants are not condemned to either the power of the rich or that of haters.
A new parliamentary majority is possible around La France Insoumise.
The taste for happiness remains contagious.
If you answer our call on June 18th— the day the second round of legislative—
our resistance can win the battle!
And, together with you, I will work towards it with all my energy.
Long live the Republic! Long live France!